In November 2019, the governing body of Jehovah's Witnesses reported an amazing milestone.
Content on jw.org was now available in 1,000 languages.
We thanked Jehovah for this accomplishment.
He guides us with his Holy Spirit to make disciples the people of all the nations.
But it didn't stop at 1,000.
More than 20 languages have been added since that 2019 report.
Translating media into over 1,000 languages is an incredible amount of work.
And it requires close cooperation across many parts of our organization.
Translation teams work under the direction of the writing committee of the governing body.
Additionally, the publishing committee of the governing body supports their work
by building remote translation offices and equipping them with the tools they need.
These remote translation offices are established where people speak the language being translated.
In this video report, we'll see how this is done using adaptable methods
that make wise use of our donations.
But most important, we'll see the good results when people are able to learn about Jehovah and their own language.
Living with the language we translate is spoken as helped us to improve the way we translate our publications.
We are now able to interact directly with the native speakers when we go in the ministry
and attend meetings and assemblies.
The other benefit is that the commuter volunteers who come and help daily at the RTO
were born and raised right here.
This fact makes these brothers and sisters a precious part of the translation team
because they write in a way that is clear and easy to understand.
The remote translation offices arrangement has proved to be very effective.
Over time, the worldwide design construction department working under the direction of the publishing committee
worked to simplify new RTOs and adjust existing ones.
A small RTO can be established in a kingdom hall like this one in Easter Island
or at an assembly hall like here in Guatemala.
These flexible solutions make the best use of dedicated funds.
The translation office was built very quickly with red bricks
which made it possible for us to move in within four months.
We never expected that we could be given such a beautiful place as this.
Constructed in record time.
In about six months, they constructed the residence building,
the offices and the recording studio.
In Bangalore, India, rented space in this commercial building is used as a support RTO.
As a result, support for translation only RTOs can be fairly simple.
This also means that the space requirements for a translation only RTO reduces significantly.
The team takes the translated text from the translators
and then they can word it into a design format that can be used for printing
or for distribution over the web
and can also be read on the JW Library app
or can be heard as an audio recording.
For a number of years, they were just a handful of RTOs.
Today, there are over 400 worldwide.
That tremendous growth is possible in part
because of the way we now build and equip RTOs.
Isn't it wonderful to be part of Jehovah's people
who make such great efforts to reach as many people as possible, regardless of language?
Since the language used in the publications is easy to understand,
I really enjoyed doing my personal study.
This has made it possible to know our father Jehovah better
and it has also helped me to teach others about Jehovah
who are also making Jehovah their friend.
At Isaiah 65-13, Jehovah says,
Look, my servants will eat, but you will go hungry.
Look, my servants will drink, but you will go thirsty.
Jehovah's promise to feed his people will not go unfulfilled.
It's the publishing committee's privilege to assist in that feeding.
We pray for Jehovah's blessing on our efforts
to provide remote translation offices
wherever they are needed to support God's people.